In this video,
we're going to secure the order history backend.
So the Order History functionality is working,
however, the REST API on the backend,
/api/orders is unsecured.
All right, so we have the front end stuff in place
but the actual backend REST API is wide open.
Anybody can access that backend API.
And so what we'd like to do here
is secure the backend REST API.
So the /api/orders should only be available
to logged in users.
So they'll have to log into the actual application first
before they can actually access this backend API.
So the get for /api/orders.
Here's our development process.
In step one, we're going to add the Okta Spring Boot Starter
to the Maven pom.xml file.
And then we'll create an app at the Okta Developer website.
Next and the Spring Boot app,
we'll set up our application properties.
And then finally we'll protect the endpoints
in the Spring Security configuration class.
Alright, in step one of adding the Okta Spring Boot Starter
to the Maven pom.xml file.
So Okta provides a Spring Boot starter for Oauth 2
and OpenID Connect.
It simplifies the integration and configuration
of Spring Security and Okta.
So here's the pom.xml file
and the entries here for the group ID,
artifact ID and the version.
And this is provided by Okta.
If you'd like to get more information or more details
on this Okta Spring Boot Starter,
go to the link here that I have on the slide.
In step two we're going to create an app
in the Okta website.
So we simply visit the website,
we create a new application integration for the platform,
we choose web, for the sign-on method
we choose OpenID Connect.
We hit the create button
and then it'll give us some details here.
And so we simply give an application name.
We can give any name that we want.
And then at the bottom here
we can set up the login redirect URI.
And I'll cover all of this in the coding video.
I'll kind of walk you through the process of
getting into the website, filling out the forms accordingly.
For step three in the Spring Boot app,
we're going to set the application properties.
And so we'll set up the properties here
for Okta.oauth2.client ID.
And we'll also do a similar thing here
for client secret and for .issuer.
And you may wonder, well,
where can I get this information from?
Well, you'll get this from the Okta Developer website.
Once you create that app, then you'll have the entries here
over on the right hand side,
client ID, client secret and Okta domain.
And you can easily copy paste that information
from the website over into your properties file.
And I'll show you that whole process in the coding video.
Your Spring Boot application will use these properties
to verify and validate the JWT access tokens.
Alright, let's do a quick little refresher on OAuth 2.
So there are some key players here,
resource owner, resource server,
client app and the authorization server
and they all kind of interact and work together.
And so let's kind of just take a look at this
and do a quick refresh.
The one item we'll look at is a resource server.
The resource server is the app that's hosting
our protected resources.
So in our case it's our Spring Boot app
that's hosting our RESt APIs.
The resource server manages security
using the access tokens, JWT.
The access tokens are validated
with the authorization server, which is Okta.
So now let's kind of pull this together.
On this diagram here,
the resource owner is the actual end-user, right,
they'll enter the user ID and password.
They'll make use of this client application.
In our case, that's an angular, front-end application.
And then the resource servers are Spring Boot application
holding our protected resources, those REST APIs.
And then finally the authorization server is Okta.
And here's the sequence diagram,
so you can kind of see the whole interaction
between these different players.
So the resource owner will log in with their credentials,
their user ID and password.
The client application will send those credentials
over to the authorization server, which is Okta.
Okta provides an auth token.
We'll use that auth token to request an access token.
And then auth will provide us that access token.
The client app will use that access token
and send it over to the resource server
which is our Spring Boot application.
Our resource server's going to verify,
validate the token, with the authorization server, Okta.
And if everything checks out okay,
then it'll provide access to the protected resource.
So again remember the resource servers
are Spring Boot application and he says,
"Hey, I have a token, is this a valid token?"
Then based on our security rules,
then we can provide access to that given protected resource.
Now with the clients sending the access token,
they're going to send the access token
as an HTTP request header.
So our angular application, when they make a web request,
then they'll actually send over this request.
They'll also set up a special request header,
authorization:bearer and then the actual
reference to the access token, all right?
So this is something that our angular application
will have to send over.
Now at the moment, our angular app, doesn't send this,
we'll add this in some feature videos
but that part will need to be in place
for it to fully work into end.
At the moment we're simply focusing on the backend
of securing the backend, the REST API.
Once we get the backend REST API secured,
then we'll focus on making the updates for the angular app,
but don't worry, I got you covered,
we'll cover the backend stuff and the front end stuff
in these series of videos.
Okay, finally step four, protecting the endpoints
in the Spring Security configuration class.
So we just set up our package and our imports here,
we'll set up this configuration,
extends web security configure adapter.
We override the configure method for HTTP security,
and then we're going to protect this endpoint/api/orders.
So here, what we're going to do is we're going to protect
the endpoint and it's only accessible
to authenticated users.
So note here for .antmatches at /api/orders/**.
The star star will basically say,
apply this rule for this path and all sub paths recursively.
And the .authenticated piece says,
"Hey, this is only accessible to authenticated users."
And then we have OAuth 2 resource server.
So basically we're going to configure ourself
as an Oauth 2 resource server,
so we're providing support for that.
And then we have .jwt.
So this enables JWT encoded bearer token support.
So when this information is passed over
as part of the HTTP request header,
then this gives us functionality to process that header,
read that information
and process that JWT token accordingly.
Now, one thing I want to kind of just step aside here
and make a small digression,
JWT, that's how I referenced it.
Online you'll also hear people refer to this
as JSON Web Token.
You'll also hear people refer to it as a "jot."
You can call it a jot or JSON Web Token.
It's totally up to you.
It doesn't change the technical stuff, right?
Everything still works as desired.
Okay, back on track (giggling).
And then we add support for the cors filter.
So we simply say http.cors
and that's basically it as far as the Spring Security
backend coding for securing this REST endpoint.
So what we'll do is we'll move into the next video
and we'll go ahead and start writing the code.
So I'll see ya in the next video.